Supplementing RuleBased Expert system with Connectionist modules in MDM.
========
Consistency in causal modelling:
Rule based systems allow for parametric models, which can be scaled and transformed, such as models of engines where cc, drive wheels could be parameters and one can predict the torque on the rear wheel for a range of paramtric combinations.
Where a Turing machine is incorporated into the mechanism, there are two areas where things get complex, the while loops allow for potentially unending programmatic execution, where user events (such as tyre slippage to engage 4wd) are awaited. Sometimes the infinite loops make the program a service and is enabled as a feature. The presence of a mechanism that has no final macroscopic state transformation (though microscopic internal loops might exist) might not be deterministic. Hence consistency is compromized. The second point is the caliberation of events. Some of the events might be completely random (where user makes entries to a screen) or might rely on sensor digital signal transformation thresholds. The cutoff of continuous data from the environment might lead to inconsistencies in the system. 
Thus, inferring qualitative truths from quantative data passes through arbitrary filters (rationalized by versioning), binds the system to the context.
Dynamic extension of the system (rather than static self contained modelling) becomes possible due to indefinite waits for events. Coevolution and reflexivity disturbs consistency, indefinite movement defies snapshotting for reproducible state.

Apart from this one might also consider:
The reasoning process of FSM might be non markovian, in that it might not be entirely stack based and may write to external memory of its history.
Syllogistic reasoning over definite sets, expecting certain events while excluding others. Causality assumes distinct pathways to attain certain ends. Thus, torque might be increased by gearing or increasing fuel or fuel mixing. Each of these paths have independent subpathways which have no relevance for deciding an end state (high vs low torque). These strategies are additive. There might be independent causations for the same effect in which orthogonal strategies might be used. Say the decision of whether a customer becomes loan eligible might be due to domiciliary or employability pathways both of which might be necessary and sufficient in their own branches. Privy to each branches there might be subeligibility filters, such as domiciliary verification outcome event being handled in one branch while not in another. An ontology of closed exclusive sets, produce combinations that make inferring the algorithm inductively difficult.
A consistent system might be modelled causally. Causality assumes a realism and singularity of knowledge which 'is'. From an observation of the objective, one could construct subjective, applied normative perceptions in line with Cartesian Dualism. Phenomena are dynamic changes to a system, constrained by its parameters but not motivated by them. Thus photosynthesis ought not be there, but if be there, the equation is always balanced in molarity. Only by hypothesis and experimentation are phenomena exposed. The theory defines their bounds. There are too few phenomena that exist than the combinations of theoretical parameters might permit. These are explained by initial conditions. Thus, we assume a history (or a continuity from initial conditions) wherein sets have not come to existence all at once, but phenomena connect certain subsets in ways that is arbitrary. 
Phenomena do exist and perceptible to the senses. They might be interpreted in symbols and shapes such as with the periodical table. Non linear behaviour, discontinuities (as with rows of periodic table) cause phenomena. The question is whether phenomena be considered as special cases of theoretical interactions or they should be studied phenomenologically, where the observer is active and in which case it could be contested if phenomena do exist. It might as well have been constructed constrained by sensorial peculiarities of humans, temporal spans of observation of frequencies or they may be deemed to exist in as much as they are normatively interesting. The truth might be ambivalent between the two points. Some phenomena had been studied such as photosynthesis because of their utility, while numerous phenomena might lie latent.
Likewise humans are interested in avoiding accidents. Hence, they construct circumstances in which accidents materialize. Thus, it works not on a causal model, but on designating a network where certain observations/actions percurse or increase the risk of certain trajectories. Coexistence of multiple risk factors (while being dealt as additive in quantative risk scoring) might be seen as the state space of the dynamically evolving system. The instantaneous state space distribution posits evolution along certain semi seperated pathways. They might not be strictly additive (except over a large parameter model), but more of non smooth shapes which might be assigned qualitatively distinct symbols. Thus risk information knowledge could be so represented in the form of stable state space shapes (dynamic evolutionary stability). This might be a technique to extract causality.
But this technique often ignores system boundaries, where the contributions might arise from the context as well and hence the model might be phenomenological.


Techniques:
A technique might be to use skewness detectors at the outcome of each qualitative filter. If the resulting outcome of a path in which a filter F is a member is skewed then F might have to be recaliberated. A prior recaliberation by normalization (based on a random sample) is good for a given context. In case of a realtime adjustment by feedback, the skewness of the outcome distribution, say the outcome distribution is skewed in that the positive is highly likely and it is correlated with F values being highly skewed towards a positive risk indication. Realtime deskewing would require prediction of end state at each level, which would require a backward smoothing.
Further reading on d-seperation and do calculus, inferring causality by Pearl.
Planning as Temporal reasoning James F Allen

An analysis of Computing in the Knowledge theory of Development
