A Developmental interpretation of Computing

Here we attempt to frame computing as an abstract machine that attempts to provide solutions without explanations. The superfluity of explanations and the rational method is attempted of presentation here as a fleeting construct of four hundred years of modernity. 

Defining Development
Development is seen as the ability to increase surplus in any frame of reference, be it a family or a nation. The other dimension to development is how the surplus is applied. That is to say, once the surplus is available, it ought to be applied to create a barrier that seperates the randomness of nature from the self. A perfect insulation is not possible but in such an utopia, a given individual is able to do such actions that have no explanations, as manifestations of his ultimate sovereignity and free will. 
But clean seperation from nature is not possible. The internal entropy to the system causes emergent problems. The ability to defer internal entropy from building up involves growth. That is to say, as the internal entropy builds up within the system, where there arises disharmony and random movements of libertarian individuals in the society, leading to the weakening of the fortifications, one would need to rely on absolute incremental order being generated in order that the inertia of the internal structures are overcome. The net energy flow inside the system allows for reformatting the system dynamically so that entropy is reduced. If the growth can be sufficiently subtle as to render it an oscillation about a mean position as a method of stability is theoretically tenable.
Interpretation of Collective Growth
As growth materializes, there is more surplus available and this available surplus is required of appropriation to the private sphere. This would need that the private sphere involves zero sum games of cultural celebration and spiritual reflection. The seperation of the public sphere from the private sphere requires polity to safeguard the private rights of the citizen. For this to be set in motion and sustained, there are costs involved. Hence, the state collects portions of the surplus arising from the employment of rational tools in solving problems of nature in order to set a system where an authoritative version of the truth could be delivered. 
Hence, the state could not be sustained without surplus and the rational enterprise is under stress to produce a surplus, rather than simply zero sum costs. There are aspirational estimations made in deriving cumulative mechanical advantage, which works most of the time, leading to an incremental surplus. The surplus thus put into the hand of the individual after paying taxes, then becomes capital, with the potential to create further capital. This capital is looped to the potential to create more cumulative machines. This loop of finance and mechanical advantage leads to a spiralling out of surplus. This surplus could be applied in the public sphere to create commonwealth. 
This commonwealth of resources, which allows for public infrastructure, fortifications and expansionist or defensive campaigns arises from the ability of governments to dematerialize physical machines into promises that flow. These promises are validated from the central registry of authoritative truth. The flow of promises allows for public sphere discussion over generating surplus, which happens in market transactions, wherein statistical truths are delivered (as price bands with distributions). This use of rational mechanical advantage at the level of a society causes policy dilemma. At the same time, the society as a whole is seeking mechanical advantage. Normally, it should be the knowledge that flows across individuals who may then utilize an invention and replicate it, to create surplus available for their own disposal in their private sphere. The flow of state sponsored promises in exchange of the material factor of production, causes the dilemma wherein the state becomes responsible not just of maintaining the law, but of herding this new found group behaviour.
The market becomes rife with rigging. Likewise the flow of capital across borders wants to involve state diplomacy and military might. It might also further reforms using the state as an agent to consolidate factors of production to reap mechanical advantage (such as bulk acquisition of land). The state hence becomes deeply inspired by the capitalist. Policy is however polar, in the sense as one set moves to support the market and the capital, another side attempts to relieve the pipleline of generation of surplus, which attempts to push the state rather than think of genuine rational mechanisms. The misuse of state machinery and the state’s helplessness in order to sustain the flow into its exchequer arise from the limitations of the rational method to consistently generate mechanical advantage. This is an area of unpredictability. The need to smoothen the inconsistencies of the rational method, involves the state playing the role of the stabilizer, obliging here and when the cartel grows too strong dispersing it.Hence, the root cause might be traced to the problem of the method of reductive modelling. 
Hence, the problems of development in the modern state involves destabilized state actors, transnational violence, imperfect markets and the usurpation of the private sphere into dedicating time in deciding on the real world feedback of rational productive techniques (by participating in the market as consumerists). 
Why the reductive modelling fails:
Reductive model suffers when non linearity is involved, which arises from paralellism in the real world. The market is a good agent to distribute the determination of the fitness of a solution in paralell mode, so that emergent wisdom might be approximated to the fitness of the solution in the real world. However, the market is a much smaller computational system, when compared to the world at large. The market is subject of fallacies that could set expectations by mass delusions. It might be nudged and influenced, even by the government and cartels. The market being imperfect reductive models are evaluated in an unstable manner. 
The more fundamental reason for the failure of the reductive model is the inherent risk in increasing completeness at the cost of reducing consistency. Thus, the system itself acquires paralell dynamics and starts working imperfectly. There arise fluctuations to its mechanical advantage (more precisely due to the environmental dynamics). A sufficiently powerful simulation does not exist and abstract reasoning is inherently problematic. The reliance on markets is also imperfect. Attempts to stabilize the reductive model paradigm leads not only to state destabilization, but also destabilization of the environment (by waste disposal/unaccounted exploitation) and of the people unprotected by state machinery (either due to policy or due to flaws in implementation of the state machinery). It also furthers cross border expansion and violence. 
The linear modelling involves construction of a serialized model of the universe. The events that are thrown into contrast and cherrypicked and assembled into machines capable of work. There are other events working in paralell, which alter the course, but it is incapable of being incorporated into any language, due to the linear nature of reasoning and expression. Hence, the only solution to reductive modelling is to absorb the risks therein by the capitalist himself. The propogation of the instability makes it complex for everybody. But it is difficult to estimate the failure probability of a rational fix in order that a control of the absorption of risks.
The Control Problem
Control of the betting in reductive engineering while maintaining sufficient buffer is a hard problem. So far the feedback from the system is too strong that influences the control mechanisms themselves. A wide berth leads to excessive rewarding of failed cases and a narrow berth leads to propogation of the shock. It needs a dynamic solution. A static wall around the workings of rational systems, requires setting up a fixed outcome from it like some taxes or royalty, which is very low. This might cause a growth in the governed system to the extent that governance becomes impossible. Dynamic smoothing by state mechanisms, natural dumps and markets have all yielded imperfect results. 
The development of the machine which controls the rational machines themselves and buffers all user feedback signals without revealing the global context is achieved by the invention of the computer. The computer puts each capitalist in a local context and he optimizes to immeidate problems.
Stabilization by Ballistics
The control problem arises mainly because of there being the need for scale in many cases in order to realize the benefits of rational machinery. There is a steadily increasing compounding of machines in order to achieve results. This is like a setup of unstable heterogenous blocks, forever adjusting and correcting their positions, sending shockwave across the substrate. In fact finance was introduced as a way to stabilize this setting. Finance market allowed for highly divisible and fluidic counterpart to the machine based ecosystem. But over time, heterogenity started to emerge in finance itself, with Banks and other institutions chunking up money.There are instruments and currencies that self referentially stabilize and influence the finance market. This is highly resented by the Von Mises Institute. 
Computing approaches the problem of ballistics from the other side, it slices the assets in time and space into tiny chunks, so that they can move about ballistically, hopefully working well with the financial and governmental stabilizers. But finance also started out this way. The agents consolidated slowly driven by certain behaviours. The agents who are supposed to optimize locally with respect to their reward seeking behaviour hold on to positions, anticipating gains or minimizing losses and ignore stimuli. On the other hand, on the moral front, where they are supposed to look in the long term, they attempt to optimize locally. Thus, we may say that much of the amoral agents tend to consolidate.
Amoral Agents consolidating behaviour:
The consolidating by amoral agents are however under control in pragmatic cases by the bureaucratic agents, which might be streatched to include the judiciary. The bureaucrats do not appeal to mythological objectivity, but derive a sense of justice from legal prescriptions which are logically consistent. They themselves are stoic agents, rather than holy men. The second type of control in pragmatic society exists by means of popular appeals to moral outrages. This arises where political agents see a problem and instability and attempt to generate public voice in stabilizing the setting by applying a strong intensive force.
At this point, we might think of computing to be dedicated to stabilizing the setup by providing a ballistic proxy. It might hence not be able to defy control by legal and moral outrages, eventhough it might consolidate as much as Banks did in the past. Hence, there is likely to be a continuing instability to the setting, but they may still be under control by fixing ownerships and such methods usually applied to emergent institutions. 
Role of Computers
Apart from displacing capital and consequent need for authority and hence moral reflection, computers however might land the people with a situation where they have no choice to be ‘good’, even if they wish to be heroes. This itself might prompt a moral outrage, but it is difficult to anticipate how it might be formed. All events that are registered to a computer, results in the computer attempting to hairsplit some resource allocation in real time. The simulation worth of computers to project and hence predict the outcome of certain paralell processes are limited owing to the exponential wall of combinatorics. Hence computers themselves might provide little by way of control and explanation by acting as rational agents. They might be quircky and use stochastic methods.

Rigour to the approach:
The problem itself is one of an universal controller. The problem of universal control entails certain paradoxes. If a minimal tapping is done of the benefits,there arise a dilemma where the system being controlled reacts by arming itself or if over exploitation is done, it collpases. There is an elusive optimum with respect to control of such systems. Due to this reason, it is difficult to make a formal expression of such problems. There is always a presumption of the reader being in the context and an appeal is made to his higher senses, by a choice of words, which are intended to resonate. The concepts of morals and the distributed nature of the problem itself, that is we do not have a single port to plug into and control. There are many areas where tiny instabilities arise and are controlled at many discrete points. These distributed problems hence permits only appeals to aesthetics rather than appeal to reason and hence formal expressions might be absent in our discourse.












1. Modernity started to have to much to do with libertarianism as much as generation of surplus. There was seen an emancipatory goal in attempting to generate surplus from nature as well as to make sure that a person in general has choice that is maximized. The method of approach to generate surplus from nature involved development of rational framework which can spot events in nature, allowing for the construction of machines which could perfect phenomena that generate surplus.
2. Rationality is necessarily incremental, in that older concepts give rise to new concepts. Likewise machines are capable of building over one another and incrementally generate surplus. The surplus is then appropriated by the mechanism of governance. Governance involves in its canonical form running a registry of properties and promises. The promises are best represented in the distributed medium of the currency. The use of a mechanism to make sure promises are met, allows for committing what is material into the idealistic domain. The actual machines that are created by rational actors by their cleverness is submitted to common wealth in exchange of promises, which are always in flux. Thus, finance is the otherside of mechanization. It is an endeavour of modernity to seperate work from life in general. Work is proposed to be done as a rational process, which in turn is expected to produce incremental surplus capable of supporting idealist domians (such as politics) and therefrom the spiritual domain.
3. It is needed of the political side to be able to provide single source of truths as an authoritative source. The authority is reserved by monopolizing violence and settlement of questions by coercion and deliberation. The promises by the monetary system and the registries provide singular truths. The presence allows people to exchange material factors of production for such ideas (as money and state). But there is in coherence to mapping from the material dimension, an expectation for monetary sphere to constantly expand. This necessity of the money to obtain a positive feedback or generate a surplus is the idea of capital.
4. In the rational schema, as we have seen libertarianism holds high sway. Hence, capital expresses the ultimate free choice of the individual to do what he wants with his invention (includng to hoard and thus hold it exclusively, without necessity of explanations). The capital is deployed into the mechanical innovations, which rely on rational methods. Thus the loop runs from the machine world, onto state authority, onto monetarism and capital. The markets blunt freewill, but in many cases capital involves the ability to carry out things irrespective of the wish of the market. The market provides statistical feedback to the captial. The western libertarian concept of development where freewill and surplus are available, is obtained by this dyad of capital and rationalist machines.
5. However singular truths are not sufficient to sustain humanity. The government also knows this and hence truths that are continuous, as bands of prices (as a distribution of prices about a mean price) is determined in the market. The market is hence a non authoritative determinant of truths as a statistical distribution. These truths also guide the application of capital. Therefore it is possible that norms could guide free willed decisions. 
6. Ideally the government running the sources of singular truths, by coercion and by boundary preservation allows it to appropriate surplus and it could thence go ahead with public spending for the development of the society, based on prerogatives of planning on the best courses of application of capital. But private capital, as advised by market prices go into the construction of further factors of production. This necessity for finance expansion pushes the employed capital to search for new rational fixes. As might be seen from history, reductive solutions frequently have low marginal returns. Hence, capital pushes for transnational flow and that had been the engine of imperialism.
7. The government would hence have to take the side of the capitalist and allow for their lobbying in order that it could ensure a financial expansion. It would have to assist the transnational flow of capital, sometimes by chartered companies as with the imperialist period. This causes a divergence of the role of the government. In other words, the position of governance, becomes destabilized by this need to rely on private capital, as being captialist or acting in a reactionary mode. Thus, wild oscillations might arise. Some governments might think the push of the capitalist as being unpopular and side with the majority and revert to public spending being the primary mode of operation or resort to fascist agenda, attempting to redeem the individual from the grind of the mechanical, monetarist, captialist, militarist diplomacy, that has inflationary tendencies and irregular oscillations (due to the reflexive anticipation between incremental mechanical advantage). 
8. This in turn leads to violence. Thus, the postmodernist reaction involves a rejection of centralized authority, which work on dominant narratives like that of capital or the need for protecting the common man against capitalist choice. It would hence necessarily have to reject rationalism, finance in order to stay consistent. The twin problems of state violence and the bigotry involved in stating the benefits of reductive modelling, while modernity does not count side effects and waste was the wind in the sails of the postmodernist movement. The postmodernist movement hence takes a toll on the power of capital, of the state and of the development of powerful rational models that could be made into engineering feats. 
9. Thus the attack is essentially directed at reductive modelling. The concept of the machine as being a heirarchial rationally explainable concept wiht a positive feedback hence came to be revisited. The new machine is event based, which works not on rational concept that is preserved and sealed by capital (as working capital of large corporations operating logistic networks), but as highly adaptive, responsive machines (as with ola). This adaptive machine is hence the abstract machine, that had materialized as the concrete machine. 
10. The primary instrument of control of humans to the event driven machines is by feedback. That is to say, the actions of the machines is responded by humans by events, which in turn shape the cacheing behaviour of machines to act to certain events in certain manner. 
11. While this transition is in the making, humanity also suffers a crisis of conscience and identity. The human consciousness involves an ability to reflect on the entire schema of rational engineering giving rise to incrementally productive machines, being balanced by finance and accumulated into capital subject to free will, moderated by the norms of the market to guide actions. The ability to reflect allows humans to see the runaway complex in the way of working of the world, as distinct from the human desire for perfection of free will. This ability to reflect on the mistakes allows for the construction of an unchanging concept of the self, by expanding the consiousness to ways in which people can construct things which do not exist in free form. The causal connectedness discredits the originality of any observation. Thus, we might say that machines, capital, state are all connected and thus the self which is capable of observing it critically is more consistent than these systems.
12. We might see that while modernity was successful in seperating work from general living, the complexity arising from the incrementally productive machine, capital and its pressure on the state, giving rise to a paralellism arising from an oscillatory state policy on capital, due to the need to artificially prop up capital (or condemn it) away from the forces of the market (which is quite vulnerable to tampering) and the real world solutions generating surplus. This complexity due to ambivalence of state policy arising from the vagaries of rational machines and the transparency concerns of the market itself, leads to a frustration with the complexity. Over time the complexity becomes so high that the individual in the cultural sphere away from the work sphere is primarily spending time in deciding on how to dispose off his own capital. There is no direct link to rational material world of the factors of production, nor of the free form market. Thus, whatever culture is left off in arts suffers a crisis.
13. This artistic crisis actually triggered postmodernist expansion. The postmodernist point is to attempt to dethrone the authoritarian single source of truth from the government or its coalition with the capitalist, which in turn is dependent on the rational mechanistic performance and instead attempts to work with the market itself. The computing machines generate and assimilate events from the market, without a need for central authority and it seems to be close to perfection. But the side effect of a loss of visibility over what is constructed by human agents and how they mesh together to create the reality, causes a crisis of conscious expansion. In the market, the human consciousness could not see large scale phenomena, which it could attempt to control and experiment with. All it sees is the local context and this leads to a fragmentation of the consciousness. Culture is the ability to reflect on the history and the absence of history is a crisis too. The old schema of seperation of work from living is also passe,leading to action having no idealist representation in an abstract sense. Thus, computers become the most concrete machines.
14. This crisis of identity, drives humans to attempt to construct local identities around local contexts. These local identities might have an effect on the feedback of the computing systems. The computing systems become exposed to control by feedback among its own peers (which now have divergent feedback providing humans  and are hence much different and competing). Thus there is a loss of control by feedback from the human end. The peer to peer feedback gives rise to an emergent consciousness, which is often seen as the ‘goal misalignment’ problem in AI literature. The two consciousnessess are at this moment in history undergoing a dramatic clash. The former is the consciousness which needs reason around constructs in order to make sense of the world, in terms of why it has not been rewarded ( a conscious that expands based on knowledge) or why there is pain and the conscious  of emergent peer to peer control among computers. 
15. Prescriptively, one might see that identity might be dynamically managed by recursive construction (after all recursive construction as with fibonacci generation algorithms had been successful in tackling dynamical problems).

