Public Sphere Metaphysics
======

In our reading of the philosophy as the 'speculative science', championed by the early modern philosophers such as Descartes and Spinoza and well rendered by Ferrier later, we see that there is a speculation on the nature of reality and the self constructed through rational process, intended to uncover this truth, perhaps asymptotically. The idea is however that system building is important in philosophical inquiry. This is different from the twentieth century analytical philosophy in that the latter aims to explain philosophy without metaphysics ready for empirical verificaiton. In fact in the turn of the twentieth century, metaphysics had been much discredited due to the power of empirical science in demonstrating the amount of good things it could bring into life, that there seemed to be a waste of time to wonder about forms which have no practical relevance.
The need to wonder on such things as detached from its value proposition was argued by Max Weber much seriously and was contested by Rorty(The Politics of Intellectual Integrity-Richard Wellen). The argument was with particular reference to the intellectual independence of universities as trustees of the positivist effort of mankind as detached from normative values. The need for the pursuit of positivist knowledge distanced from rewards and even partisanship in promoting policy was strongly advocated by Max Weber.
Whitehead revived the need for metaphysics in the early part of twentieth century by stating that while it is fashionable to condemn metaphysics by scientists,actually they are only condemning the criticism of their own metaphysics.
The direction we head is to see that metaphysics of intelligence, knowledge and the ultimate burden of mankind to know the truth is attained by humans by rational means, for which metaphysics provides some support but is followed by accomodation of love and faith and the reflection by contemplation of nature. This is synanomous to the ninth epoch of Grecian philosophy which vested human ability to truth on Faith and Love. Therefore, one ought to content that the pursuit of objective knowledge is what allows liberation of mankind to seek such ultimate reconcillation away from the public sphere, within a closed community and in his privacy. 
Thus, we refute Rorty's idea of a pragmatic philosophy (where objectivism is infact perfected intersubjectivity) as being sufficient for public sphere discourse. We seek that a lively, well rounded critical philosophy seeking objective ends is in fact needed and debated in public sphere in order that there is reconcillation of universal concepts (not just time and space as suggested by Kant) concerning the nature of the universe and on the nature of knwoledge and truth. 
We might in fact see pragmatically, that such an advocacy for objectivism in philosophy as an expression of commitment to find universals, so as to foster peace and allow ourselves to differ only on what is decidedly subjective expressions of our self. Such a pragmatism is what we seek to consider the intervention of computing into this cycle of human development.
This leads us into the necessity of proving the existence (since we support rational philosophy, we attempt to prove - even if not rigourously, by analogy and by mathematical reduction) of a phenomenon wherein agents who modify their states based on phenomena alone, without abstraction lead to emergent macroscopic phenomena outside of their control. This abstraction we take it to be not as a continuum with subjective phenomenological knowledge (as intersubjective extraordinaire) but as a neumological universe which might be asymptotically attempted of approaching (to cite Whitehead) in order to result in a pragmatic outcome of avoiding macroscopic phenomena (such as population splitting into rival factions) and instead contending with 'intentional' different complete systems. This would also need of proof that humans need apart from reason - charity and hope. Charity is a part of the solution framework in a society where an oracle simply solves problems by mitigating it (conservative at a social level) and hope by philosophical insight which helps framing the finite inside the infinite.
Thus, we might look at the mathematics of homogeneous stable systems and see how they might spontaneously split rather than stabilize by self balancing. We might look at the emergence of games, on Lyopunov stability and lagrangian pathways (for which objectivism provides a way of reaching). Likewise much of our attempt to look at the situation stems from a social perspective. That is to say, humans having come together as a society, how would they avoid either a complete merger (evolutionarily this is feasible, the domain of absolute equality) while maintaining cooperation at conflict avoidance levels ( by sustaining liberty and free will, without that becoming defection). Thus the whole pragmatic case of philosophy is one of maintaining stability of social groups. This would need idealism apart from material engineering. The loops of development, involving abstraction of phenomena (as suggested by aristotle - who rejected sensual experience and instead embraced the method of the logic) resulting in isolation of useful phenomena (instead of a case where everything is phenomena). The production of surplus by exploitation of useful phenomena followed by the distribution of such phenomena by duly constituted authority into infrastructure and stable states. The idea of duly constituted authority here involves notion of intersubjectivity and more importantly the objectification of human intents - by the metaphysics of human wants and being able to isolate truth from falehood in terms of agency, free will and the whole phenomenon of social grouping. This would involve appreciation of the phenomenon of social grouping by culture - proding, criticising and reflecting on why we are together here on a continous dynamic basis, so that a stable level of cohesion is maintained without complete merger. Therafter cultures though capable of high degrees of communication and replication, themselves might run into concrete divergence, leading a feedback loop to the objectification of nature. 
Thus the two phenomena we wish to investigate are 'divergence' and the phenomenon of social stability - as being peculiar of living organisms of social nature and its stabilization away from the pressures of eusociality or even multicellular analogous evolution.
Some references>
A study of an ancient discussion in the Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society discussing on the stability of vessels by Lord Atwood in 1798 addresses the point the question that heuristics of observation and practice had been the general method of naval architecture, there is a need to employ theoretical models. This point of view supports the necessity of higher levels of abstraction as being of utilitarian necessity for development of novel designs (the same case as we had discussed on the need for identifying interesting events by having a theory). 
The book by Routh on Stability of motion discusses the point that a system might be stable if it is dynamic and a perturbation is not capable of dislodging it from the oscillations about its mean trajectory while a perturbation being able to diverge the trajectory (and possibly disintegrate the system due to internal tension) as being indicative of unstable systems. Instability is mathematically expressible and hence deemed to exist.
From these examinations and inquiries we see that the major point of contention in our work is whether phenomena are sufficient of interpretation based on pragmatic expectations or that a neumenic reflection is required. All the discussion over computers being phenomenological and do not go towards constructing explicit well formed objective rules boils down to whether there is a need for coordination of the society as suggested by Durkheim or whether markets serve the purpose well as suggested by Hayek (refer Two Views on Social Stability: An Unsettled Question by Birner). This question is to seek whether there is a need for a duly constituted authority in order to objectively express the views of the society. In such case, the idea of natural justice and other realist concepts come into play which could very well be extended to their use in explaining natural history as well. If the whole realist concepts are avoided, as suggested by Rorty, we might have it like rules emerge from market forces, or games where the rewards are tied to solution to natural problems and mitigation of violence over distribution. Thus, in the former case there is a need for explicit law and the latter case of emergent rules from games.
It is self evident that humans cannot avoid metaphysics all together. They could not help wonder who they are one why there are here, reflectively (speculate that is). Hence they ought to construct theories therefor apriori. This drive causes them to formulate ideal rules and models of nature from which they relate to the tragedy of human condition in being able to percieve only the noisy correlations between self and the object (Quentin Meillassoux ). There is a constant drive to redemption over the human condition to move away from reward based temptation to the pursuit of the ideal and perfect. The Alexandrian school puts the realization of such goodness (in a Platonic monistic sense) in Faith rather than reason. But it could be aysmptotically approached by system building approach (Whitehead).
Now, if we look that everything is aposteriori, mainly a reactionary stance to the usurpation and violence associated with the agencies vested with authority (the denial of apriori conclusions stand assault starting from Kant all the way to Nietschze). In this stance, we feel that games arise from pragmatic concerns and rules boil up and intersubjective towards ostensibly universal constructs. There is also a strong correlation between libertarian democratic historic moment of USA in the wider belief in the market and hence pragmatism (Rorty).
If one talks of redemption in such situations, one is in fact asserting Metaphysics. But the more intricate question is not whether metaphysics is required, but only that whether it is required in the 'public sphere' (Rorty). Does it require of people to constitute institutions which would promote idealism in order that a collective metaphysics is imposed. Here however constructive metaphysics might find difficulty, but critical metaphysics would stand acquitted (Whitehead, Weber). Hence, as to the question whether it is a publicly sponsorable intellectual occupation to approach metaphysics is a question of importance
The points in favour is first of the need for criticism of any implicit metaphysics to emergent situations. The second one might be concerning the way in which violence from authority not warranting a complete banishment of authority itself to result in less dramatic but pervasive violence (in pollution, economic cycles etc). The third argument is the explicit problem of the lack of apriori metaphysics in non human animals had lead to evolution taking hold of the situation eventually leading to the repression of the free will of the species. Hence, it might be uniquely human to seek an explicit metaphysics. This is also closely related to the point that human socieities are phenomenologically interesting stable systems straddling between eusociality and pure liberty. This phenomenon is needed of sustenance by a public sphere metaphysics. The fourth argument is the point that divergence in implicit equilibrium systems might lead to violence. The fifth point is the historical uniqueness of computing as a phenomenon which dramatically shifts the narrative in favour of self balancing and emergent systems in a one way path. This unique development would hence warrant an objective investigation in order that it does not become the primary influential force in history.
