Recollecting the social contract
=======


To continue in the tenor of the argument of parochiality of intelligence, we see are eventually lead to the point that there does exist dilemmas of resolution between higher truths such as dedication to art, of honor, of love and those of immediate needs of biological and ambition such as seizing control of a certain resource. These dilemmas are meant to be a part of human existence and are to be solved by the individual concerned, as a step of redeeming himself. In other words this cannot be institutionalized. 
But this point of dilemma as being perenniel is uncomfortable for many. In the past, there had been movements to reclaim the dilemma from being institutionalized but they had not been successful. Say the Bhakti movement in south India a thousand years ago or the recent counterculturist hippie experiments. Both these were bold moves to commit to basic, intuitive higher truths without the guidance of authoritarian agencies like those of vedic scholars or in modern times the authority of religious and business leaders. But in either case, it lead to collission with the world in general. The world with its challenges would not let a person pursue his hearts dream contentedly. Invasions shook up the bhakti soaked medieval south India. Likewise the hippie movement would have to be constituted by bums (the dharma bums - kerouc) looking up to the general society for being fed and clothed. An attempt to assert an independent existence, lead to more mortal problems, leading to the need of authority and thereby an implosion in many cases or a dispersion by external forces. 
Thus we might provisionally say that there exists a need for a man to work (like Candide or the village blacksmith) to earn the luxury (or right) to romanticize, reflect and redeem himself. The postmodernist attempted to merge these two and deny the dichotomy. Hence, it let go of the metaphysics of the need for redemption itself. It attempted to demonstrate that the dilemma itself is constructed by instruction and conditioning in a society and not natural. It however, met with various degrees of success. It mostly took off not in its ability to retire the dilemmas but with the catalytic uprising being the critical mass required to transition into a network society (Castell). The network society as we might characterize the information society with knowledge workers, involved the constitution of transcient fleeting authority and in effect merged morality and selfishness, without the concerns of authority. In the absence of authoritarian burden to rational solutions to mundane problems, there was hardly any concern to keep the dichotomy intact. Everything flowed as one monistic, immanent (rather than speculative) metaphysics. The result, we might say that natural problems do present themselves at various points of time, leading to the emergence of authority, even if of superintelligent agents, as we had seen earlier. Besides the divestment of the dilemma to institutions rips humans of their basic right to yearn and hope.
We might now recollect the idea of instrumentality of the society as regarded in the Social Contract of Rousseau. He is considered the father of the romantic movement. Just as we had been reflecting, he considers the duality of the right to romantic day dreaming and the necessity of toil. The former he calls libertarianism and the latter of the necessity for social cooperation. If a man could handle the duality either in person or as a small family or clan, it might not merit a metaphysical reflection. Only when there arises authorities to restrain a mans liberty for solving problems in the state of nature that the need for a public sphere discourse and a holistic reflection of the metaphysics thereof arises. Hence, Rousseau postulated that the extension into the civil society was a development out of an explicit contract dedicated for a set of specific purpose, rather than the more recent interpretations of society as a spontaneous organism (Durkheim). The hypothetical contract had stirred many a revolutionary rise of great deal of violence, but it was the product of the tension of the times, rather than the philosophy itself. 
The social contract is also a legitimate extension of the Cartesian duality, in the seperation of the observer as being indepedent and endowed with a soul. He rejected the organic nature of the society and considers individual observation and agency as material, reflected also in Rousseau's philosophy. In fact we might trace this monotonic rise of an awareness of a need to reflect on the nature of civil engagement from early modernity till the early pragmatism (in fact idealism and pragmatism was placed in a continuum in the critique by Giladi). Paradoxically this was accompanied by an ever increasing integration of world order over norms and in the decreasing value of qualitative truths powered by technology. There is expected to be a strict seperation of technology being applied to natural problems and the use of technology to buy the balm for the dilemma of mankind over temptation and virtue. Whereas over time, one sees the value proposition being the universal quantifier of academic direction (as lamented by Weber) and of artists and spiritual leaders. 
Hence, we might frame this as a crisis. It could only be reinstated by dispelling the ostensible contradictions in the modernist project. It ought to be seen in the light of a strict formalism to value based activities which is loosely coupled to the indvidual drive to address the dilemma of morality. It might have been the theme in Ashokas philosophy two millenia ago. Ashoka enacted edicts with scarcely any mention of spiritual authority, not even Buddha was mentioned in his edicts. Hence, the concept of dharma might be narrowed down the reinstatement of individuals to pursue the resolution of their dilemma and the strict seperation of artha in the pursuit of duties of solving natural problems and generating surplus, limiting it to stricly logical and verifiable process, governed in the spirit of the social contract.
