
Possibilities of SuperIntelligence
======
1. The notion of truth, whether as something that needs to be reflected upon and accessed intuitively, reinforced by empiricism or as being something that would emerge in the natural course of conduct of the normative affairs of the society, postulate truth as being distinct from the phenomenological interaction between people. Phenomenological interactions concern rewards and may cancell out often. They are considered immediate gratification without any inclination towards truths and untruths. The concept of truth involves these extremes, of what is utter truth and what is not and thereby appoints authorities to regulate the dissemination of the truth (a crime is an expression of untruth, rather than a physical wrong that needs to be rectificied). It is the argument of the postmodernist that the truth is a construct of the authoritarian and a clever trick, that has accidental origins in history, which needs hence to be rectified. Authorities and truths in postmodernist philosophy are not natural.
2.Given that authority is inseperable from truths, as being custodians of truth, we might speculate as to whether there existed a golden age of no authority or that authority and its usurpation is a part of the human condition. The human condition itself is strongly sociological. All the philosophy of Kant in the agonizing imperceptability of pure forms and the distortions all belong to the realm of the society. An individual free from social norms is capable of organizing his world around such distortion, by the application of reason and contemplation of a graceful orderliness to things that are to essentially remain mystical. But even without social taboos people are guided by moral sentiments, which arise from the gut and might be termed as inherent to our perception of a long term balance. 
3. There is always needed of an individual of justification if he were to seek short term rewards in favour of stability of the system as a whole. The system itself might be social or even involve animals or inanimate things. Morality is a tendency to fairness and stability and careful regulation of generation of spontaneous events to be in synchrony with natural events. That is to not give into temptation and reap what the woods could sustain. The use of machines by themselves is not immoral if they are not to upset the stability of an underlying system.
4. Morality could be deferred by a narrative of progress, where a definite end might be the settling of things all that had been unsettled in the progressive march. Slavery, Animal mistretment and aforestation had been justified along these lines. Moralists tend to appreciate the need for individual reinstatement of balance at a personal level, rather than embarking on a collective, say national project of progress. But once such projects have come to be in a phase of history, it becomes militaristically dangerous to dissent.
5. Given that moral sentiments exist as being beyond rational comprehension or expression, the individual might seek cooperation of others in establishing stability through civil process. Hence humans cannot help organizing their society in a civil manner. They could not leave a self evolving social organization without reflection, control or plans. But the rudder of social organization is in postmodernist theme seen to be an intersubjective emergent signalling by appreciating truths and condemning untruths in an adhoc and in the stir up in the nature of storms. There seems to be a natural difference and historical circumstance in which some person is able to get a farther view than others in a given context, in which case they might rise to be custodians of truths (even in a business organizational level) and accrue authority. The situation where the truth arises a posteriori, as multiple people anarchistically compete on immediate knowledge, leads people to trust the need for a plan, rather than course correcting the march as we go. Plans could integrate with machines. Plans allow for description of ways in which phenomena could be interpreted and combined to produce surplus. This surplus or value becomes the value proposition of the Plan and hence authority and of objective truths. This might be a materialist interpretation of authority. What started as an urge of moral sentiments, found that the generation of value might be an ultimate moral rightousness and legitimate action (to cite Atlas Shrugged). That is to say Artha becomes the ultimate Dharma.
6.The question is whether the value outputs are merely a side effect of the pursuit of truth, which shall be strictly used for satisfying the biological needs and allow for a culture of seeking truth, ritualistic cohesion of the society and moral contemplation forms the foundation of the moralist debate. The economic enterprise hence is instrumental in allowing individuals to seek their moral truths and hence not tread upon it is a metaphysical proposition.
7. Hence the discussion is about the dilemma of primacy of moral sentiment versus one of utilitarian pursuit of value as being rewarding to the morality as well. We have seen both in practice, as neoliberalism bailed out numerous people from povery for the latter case and the case where slavery and imperialism was abolished in the case of the former. The fundamental problem with the approach of utilitarian pursuit of value is with the emergence of value free truths over time. These might be mythologies, but mythologies bear strong resemblance to universal natural truths. 
8.In the computational society, there is an embrace of value based truths. Information is the material of value, in which sense authority is actively juggled and traded. Decisions are made based on the complex chain of value proposition on the network without regard to rules of authoritarian safeguard of truths or moral sentiments. The use of the computer as a language that is capable of expressing value propositions can frame questions of such high nestedness that it could only be interpreted by automata due to their numeric ability to collate these rules. The decisions becoming increasingly numeric and less qualitative. Numeric decisions made by automata are hence intractable by human agents attuned for qualitative evaluations. 
9. Automata essentially end up making a great deal of decisions and hence wield authority to the distributed, practical truth web. The non verifiability of the automata agents might cause a central regression, where the automata search (there are choices involved in searching for open ended expansion of value propositions) for value closer to the median. There is no way of knowing of such central regression in phenomenological terms. One might witness a narrowing down of choices pervasively and marginal value outcomes stagnating. But there might not be ways to control the system. 
10.It might however not react jealously to abductive actions. An agent defecting the system if able to strike a value stream that is outside of the purview of the system and hence start starving the system, he becomes capable of controlling the system by committing it to sepcific narrow ends. There might be a specialization of intelligence that is controlled by an external system. But the external system must not only possess the qualitative context but also the numeric ability to evaluate, tame and control the system. Hence, a computational consciousness relying heavily on the internal compliance of biological systems might be a transhumanist future. It might materially alter our physical constitution, but that might not be material, if a perfect simulation is possible. What is material is the divestment of consciousness, where the ultimate parochial needs are projected onto newer domains involving high frequency computing (just like the existential dilemma of individual cells are handled as political domain problems by humans). 
11.Open ended domian extension of knowledge, building upon basic facts in a self referential manner is a possibility. But knowledge might also be viewed as an approach to the realist notions of truth, of an essential order to the world. The approach would mean a reduction of noise, rather than an absolute discovery of elements of truth. The simplest creatures are aware of the workings of the world, of universal order, but with a lot of noise and imprecision. There is a possibility to obtain refined models of reality, or superintelligence, where the sparseness of reasoning and the numeric abilities are enhanced enough to reason much deeper and reflect much deeper. If this is fundamentally different from parochial intelligence, is hard to say. The realist argument might be that it is an emergent consciousness that continuous progression, for progression is singular and perhaps anthropic. An altnernate narrative is not epistemologically approachable. If there be other ontologies, or paralell universes, then the transformation is uncertain of commentary.

Note: All that is defined as surplus and as the creation of infrastructure might be interpreted as the generation and the employment of capital. Here we had indicated that knowledge is something the shape of which is perceptible by a mix of epistemology and poetic awareness. It is the increase in the density of the knowledge that is accomplished by education, reflection and increased intelligence. The increased density allows one to comment upon the actions of those entities holding sparse knowledge models as phenomenological, without being directed to some universal overarching goal and hence capable of being utilized towards a larger project. This might be seen in slavery and in domestication. The incremental density is essentially a zero sum process, pouplating about the central nullity, evenly on all directions.
What we had held is only a dystopian view of the network society
