Developmental Loop- Place of pragmatic Completeness Seeking behaviour
========

Development is surplus derived from theories which would highlight events that could be viably utilized.
Progress in completing theories involve games that work with events without need for a singular and unified theory. Games work with emergent rules and are subjective. Optimization is used instead of solutions.
The third stage of development is where the engineering and the gaming arms unify and attain completeness by culture and philosophy. Completeness of games is attained by polity and of engineering by investment into a common infrastructure. Communities and nations arise. They are united by commitment to mythological consistent system at a lower level, but large organizations need to refer to realist knowledge as a conflict resolution process.
The conflict internal and external is reconciled by referring to the further development of theories. This is a feedback for further progress.

Now the question is with respect to the third phase. If a sufficiently powerful game could take care of surplus generation and self regulation without the need for common wealth and polity, threby also cutting the fourth phase of feedback, then is development said to exist?

Another View
Is it that divergence happens only in situations of isolation, the third phase of seeking completeness could be explained as impelled by isolation. Two points stand in contradiction to this view - one that spontaneous fragmentation of non isolated populations had occured microscopically as well as macroscopically in history, secondly that the world view of humans consist of two distinct parts in accordance with cartesian dualism, one of cognition and the other of reflection. Cognitive perfection is often supplmented by reflective attempts to construct ways in which completness of the whole ie the world plus the individual is aspired. This aspiration of the self is projected as culture and philosophy.


Refer : On the Inseparable Co-operation of Sense and Itellect for Arriving at Cognitions By Samuel James Rowton
From our look at the above thesis and the works of Ferrier, we find that knowing the truth is important as a part of civilizaitonal progress. We look at it from the point of view of philosophy being instrumental to conflict mitigation. The subject object debate helping attaining temproary completeness as an entity progressing.
