Interpreting computing in the developmental loop of theory-games-culture-philosophy
========

Events > Let the world be modelled as a consistent system, such as the atomic model of chemistry. Models are theories when they have definitions and extend therefrom in a manner consistent with mathematical continuity and logical deduction. Models causally connect by the continuum model happenings (good example are fields).Discrete unconnected happenings also arise. While theory defines constraints, it does not predict what would happen and what might not happen. Hence specific reactions that are legal within the model might be called as events. Events are random but legal. They can assume continuous quantifications but are discrete, but we will stick to truth values alone. Events are used by humans to construct causal connections, say a piece of wood blocks the flow of a stream, causing a composite event. Engineering envisages to bring together events which might be causally connected but arise at random and at distance (seperated temporally and spatially). Knowing connections derandomizes events, in that an event is no longer random but arises from another event. It allows construction of machines where events are connected in a less noisy fashion, such as the piece of wood being well finished and used as a dam on the stream, by perfecting the mechanism of connectedness seen in the real world (empirically while being theoreticlaly legitimate, otherwise the empiricism might be spurious).
Derandomization as Development > As people work with events for engineering ends, they attempt to complete the model using a feedback loop. The more complete the model is, without compromising consistency, one can see more problems being derandomized, allowing for engineering fixes by locating neutralizing events or composing into machines.
Bias and its institutionalization > However no model can be perfectly complete and consistent. There is bias in attempting to complete the model while sidestepping consistency. The bias is institutionalized in the market. Here games are defined as self referential systems of high consistency, which work on explicitly connecting events (unlike the theoretical world where events emerge). Reward pathways are encoded as rules against events arising from the environment, or real players. Thus, players attempt to work hard and build machines by solving real world problems and give rise to events which are rewarded. This might even be establishing ones eligibility for a loan or booking cargo on a system. The event that is initiated gives rise to numerous events consumed and acted upon by other players (like banks settling). Thus, games are hooked together by the 'while' operator which not only listens for events temporally streached but also to other game outcomes. Thus, the game as a whole might participate in higher order games. This elaborate construction over self referential games and rewards encourages optimization to local constraints (or rules of the game) rather than finding phenomena in a world of real constraints (of theory). The optimization is orchestrated to produce solutions of incremental accuracy to the real world.
Statistics > Induction of theory from events without mathematical intuition is statistics. Events might distribute in a population in terms of frequency of unbiased observation that have relative differences within specific quantifiable attribute of the population or rather intrinsic event. Thus, connection of events might be recognized by spatial analysis or temporal analysis by understanding covariance. The distribution of events seems to have connection with other invariate event. The frequentist school believes that the distribution of a variant is non random naturally for any point of view from a indexible variate. The bayesian school believes that interesting distributions arise due to excitement of latent variables on the network which influence the joint distribution in a non linear way. Thus, instead of the real indexed supposed invariate, bayesian is about joint distributions.
Pure Induction > Inductively dealing with events without the mathematical and logical intuition is what is questioned. Institutionalizing bias allows for democratic participation in solving problems of choice, by selecting suitable games by individuals. The outcome of such games causes emergent events which the individual has to make sense of (say a road widening damages his house or a certain medical condition is very expensive of being treated). The individual sees a certain bias to the system based on event orchestration. It does not hold a mathematical proof against bias as with realist systems. But more than bias, the problem is one of control. The individual does not have means to control the proxy system that substitutes the original pursuit of engineering solutions by knowledge expansion.
Development > Knowledge expansion as an original agenda of development leads to ambient control of nature, leading to genuinely uncontrollable events, labelled and identifiable as such based on the objective model at hand, to be capable of handled culturally by accomodation and philosophically by consolation. This process of control plus accomodation maarks a highly developed civilization.
Necessity of Realism > The motivation to work on expansion of knowledge is a tragedy of the commons scenario and is filtered of bias by the mechanism of explicit event based games. Games motivate cooperation which crystallizes as rules. Games rely on equilibrium rather than sovereign control (absolute right to turn off and frame policies). In order to cooperate universally however, a reference to a realist agenda of non zero sum nature as a project, a culture and philosophy is necessary. Universal cooperation relies on the nature of  progress as that theorizes the world objectively and likewise hold human values (acknowledging bias and noise) as capable of being objectively reconciled (as universal morality, virtue) based on mentalization theory. From the mentalization a realist theory of agency, action, social contract and an entire polity is capable of being constructed. The uinversal agreement over the nature of progress as involving knowledge and accomodative constructs of arts and philosophy is intuitive.
Computing and its impact > Computing increases the frequency of event generation and consumption.Hence the need for universal constructs is capable of being deferred. FSM is a game orchestration and integration schema. It is partial recursive without universal theories. It is able to quickly generate and evaluate events without the risks of mutation in transmission (low entropy and high throughput) associated with other modes. Hence, it can create highly specialized games which can solve natural problems. Games can be very incomplete and membership to multiple games (of consumption, production, travel) can help find meaning from game mates. High surplus from games while equilibrium is maintained at population level, can lead to detatchment from solving real problems idealistically. Pragmatism becomes the primary mood. Pragmatism sceptically views virtuous and vicious actions and is amoral for most parts. It accepts incomplete solutions and its mode of accomodation and consolation is one of temporo spatial distribution (in the long run things level off).
Machine Learning Impact > Programming of games retains the flavour of recognizing causation of interesting events, by humans recognizing special programmatic (game) flows as arising from specific development. Machine learning is the construction of natural links between events based on what is 'normal'. It is pragmatic and sceptical of extremes - suffering or meritorious accomplishment or vicious exploitation. Pragmatic models do solve real world problems by their high frequency capable of generating games around tough real world events. The derandomization of such events become a game strategy for such games (where nature is a player - identificaiton games by Verma and Pearl). 
Idealist Conflict resolution model in the world > The dismissal of notions of soverign control and their reconcillaiton over realist models of human actions and rights and likewise the non requirement of realist theories of the physical worlds lead to a new notion of development. It also removes notions of complete intermediate units (solution+accomodation) which run inevitably into conflict with other subjectively complete units (with high degree of attachment of individuals as being their identities). Fragmented identities in a pragmatic world does not give rise to conflict. Reconcillation of conflict in an idealist world would need constant pursuit of realist knowledge. 
Anarchism > The primary concern is that of an anarchist world and its potential for emergent authorities. The absence of policy and high frequency games or gamification becoming sufficient to engage people involves frustration, but it is a political question if this is better than the anxiety and grief over random violence by identity conscious groups. A culture of reconcillation of well defined identities is a conservative stance, while the use of upto the purpose identities without grand ideals is a democratic and leftist stance. We know that chaotic oscillations arise from near random systems. Thus as everyone has equal authority and has only their games to play, there might arise situations where the ability to make random moves (synonymous with sovereign authority) evaporates to higher level of game entities. Thus entities might generate random strategies and thus come to wield authority. The random moves might in the beginning be experimental defections necessary for games to thrive, but may come to define long standing conflict groups. Thus, there might be emergence of sustained conflict from transcient random jokes on the opponent.
Summary>Knowledge as purely Theoretic. Empiricism is only observation of events. Theory is unifying, derandomizing nature and morality. Theory is completable by games, culture and philosophy. Building on empirical events in game formats leads to weakening of downstream completing entities. Completing entities feedback to need for conflict resolution leading to further completion of theory while keeping the consistency. This loop is interrupted by high frequency inductive games, leading to interruption and anarchy, risking emergent chaos or decadance.

Interpreting computing in the developmental loop of theory-games-culture-philosophy
