The leafycampus foundation for studies in information technology and development is constituted hereby as an institution to pursue the ends detailed out hereunder:
To constitute a dedicated institution consisting of people, facilities, principles and a hinterland of people, working systematically without being pegged towards the pragmatic notions of material enrichment. This institution shall primarily work intellectually to acquire knowledge in ever increasing reflection of its pure form and base it to create pragmatic adaptations, so that consistency is advocated as a higher ideal than completeness. 
The completeness of social groups is to be attempted of materialization by complete knowledge based productive centers which are embraced by specific social groups which define their completness in cultural and artistic terms. This could be achieved only by a context bound definition of development.
Hence development of specific social groups is to be attempted by intellectual pursuit of pure knowledge, standardization of what constitutes the bounds of consistency for an applied system and leaving the incomplete areas to be managed culturally and by spiritual contemplation.
The knowledge might be the base for pragmatic adapatation resulting in productive free energy in the social system.
The standardization of consistency of such adaptive systems might arise from a tolerance and entertainment of pluralism over an intellectual arena which has due processes of critical examinations and peaceful processes and reflection of universal notions of morality.
The instution shall play the role of emancipator of specific groups, concrete or abstract by inspiration, publication, experimental and model projects.
A redemptive and context bound notion of development is proposed in a critical frame to the postmodernist construct of feedback driven, unbounded and highly subjective notions of progression of human activities, leading to emergent unifying entities, that cause fragmentation distress to individuals.
The authority of the institution is aimed to be moral and it is concieved as an idealistic one delinked to practical, material considerations.Its energies might however be directed to immediate humanitarian work even if it does not involve intellectual dimensions.
This is critical of unified notions of development over incremental problem solving power, the ability to produce greater choice to the individual while the costs themselves are collected by means that are neither transparent nor tractable. 
This engineering of unbounded, action cross-messaging platforms with minimal policy orchestration, it is felt might lead to emergent, intractable complexes. These complexes bind humans to closed infinite loops of production and consumption, with intelligent random moves migrating into the network. 
This is a metanarrative of the individuality and pluralism of narratives of development and the singularity of objective reductive knowledge, itself contained recursively in the metanarrative of plurality of ideas, openness to crticism and peaceful methods.
-
There are risks with this approach as well - conflict had arisen in the past not only out of resource sharing but also from egotism of identity (we can ontologically seperate this from evolutionary concerns). 
Cultures are identity reinforcing, independent of narratives of development. In Postmodernity mass media, consumerism and urbanization disperses culture into monotones, with microcultures emerging as transcient and forceful from time to time. These microcultures are vigourous and celeberatory or of anonymous heroism, rather than sustained in tackling problems. There is also a merging of leisure and work - as with standup comedians, representing a more general ambivalence characteristic of postmodernity. Emergent microcultures, as city belongingness satiate identity needs while being benign and open. 
We argue for restoration of leisure, work differentiation, concrete permanent identities negotiated and conflict mitigated by meta identities that overarch and sustain balance. It demands an optimism in human conflict resolution abilities, of Chivalry and Grace. It demands commitment to institutions and acknowledgement of imminent conflict, capable of resolution by deliberation, specific appointed venues like sports meet, fair towns and overarching ideas like regional agglomerations.
We present hardening of recursive structures as natural and emergent and hence their explicit construction as being desirable, as just one point of our critical representation to the general trend towards postmodernist homogenity.




Elaboration

This knowledge would be consistent and objective and be the foundation for pragmatic engineering adapatations. The development of pure ideas is the realm of idealistic institutions. Once these productive ideas are put into use, there arises in the society free energy which furthers the imperatives of growth and incremental stability of all living beings. This energy is to be appropriated for reflection on how the energy is to be applied, which include ways in which such energy is dissipated by bounding off rational enterprise to certain arbitrary bounds of consistency, so that there are not made far reaching completeness propositions by arbitrary agents. 
This enterprise of administering the standards of consistency and its boundaries is important in that it embraces distinct knowledge enterprise and bounds it from the pragmatic enterprise out of rigourous epistemological examination as human relationships, art and culture. 
The development of such standards, their administration and delivery of the philosophy which upholds an arbiter of the society as an agent of defragmentation of a geographic, cultural people, by providing opportunity to generate surplus from knowledge as well as delimitation of the knowledge enterprise from assuming high degrees of completeness at the cost of consistency, which is often by fluidic categorization and open feedback loops. 
This arbiter does not derive authority on the society by political means, but by moral means, where individual dilemmas are better resolved by referring to the leadership of the institution. 
The institution proposes scientific atonment and standardization of knowledge by its actions, inspirations and publications thereby allowing people to boldly defy complex undercurrents in the highly  globalized, market oriented, postmodernist, technologically advanced society. 



This is expected to produce in the long run, self contained unique entities which consist of clearly delineated and well formed institutions that support the pursuit of problem solving in nature and documenting them as models, which could be adapted reductively in practical adaptations towards generating gains, while being aware of their reductiveness. It encourages the other side of such society to engage in cultural utilization of such surplus, by pursuing non utilitarian problem solving, cultural celebration and to build ways of romantic reflection in which problems could at its bounds be capable of appreciation. Thus, the moral leadership by an institution which nurtures the development and standardization of knowledge as an agent of development in the form outlined above is warranted in contemproary times. 
It is required to work without bias nor the proportionate enrichment of itself or its members in the pursuit of such actions. It would encourage the application of surplus in time and resources to leisure and spaces of leisure which would not simply be hedonic but to a greater extent, a dedication of time to arts, sublime knowledge acquisition and provisioning of arbitration of a decidedly pluralistic pursuit of ideals under one roof. Thus, pluralism, leisure and reflection attained through standardization and delimitation of knowledge, the inspiration and publication of conscious influential principles of human morality form the objectives of this institution. It may obtain necessary facilities to dissemniate its ideas, carryout campaigns and actions that influence societial direction etc.
The development of idealistic institutions in the society is of high importance as long as they adhere to moral standards and standards of pluralism and peaceful processes. They are important substitute to market oriented and computing oriented processes.


